hacker-manual.md, before:

# Hacker Manual - W3PN_Hacks @ Berlin 2025


/ [Read](https://hackathon.web3privacy.info/info) Hackathon Manifesto

/ Be Excellent To Each Other and Have Fun


## 🎯 Core details
* **What:** Privacy-focused hackathon building real-world solutions  
* **When:** June 13-15, 2025  
* **Where:** Engelnest - Wilhelm-Kabus-Straße 24, 10829 Berlin, Germany ([OpenStreetMap](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/ui/search.html?q=Wilhelm-Kabus-Stra%C3%9Fe+24%2C+10829+Berlin%2C+N%C4%9Bmecko), [GMaps](https://maps.app.goo.gl/iuxPxpCeqkGK7Hi59))
* **Philosophy:** Tech-agnostic *building for impact, not just bounties*


## Table of Contents

1. [🌀 Philosophy](#-philosophy)
2. [📅 Key Timeline](#-key-timeline)
3. [📋 Schedule](#-schedule)
   - [Friday, June 13](#friday-june-13)
   - [Saturday, June 14](#saturday-june-14)
   - [Sunday, June 15](#sunday-june-15)
5. [🛠️ Hackathon Tracks](#%EF%B8%8F-hackathon-tracks)
6. [✨ Advice, Tips and Inspiration](#-advice-tips-and-inspiration)
7. [👨‍🏫 Mentors & Mentoring](#-mentors--mentoring)
8. [📝 How to Submit Your Project](#-how-to-submit-your-project)
9. [⚖️ Judging Criteria](#%EF%B8%8F-judging-criteria)
10. [🏠 Venue & Logistics](#-venue--logistics)
    - [Venue Access / Transport](#venue-access--transport)
    - [Accommodation](#accommodation)
12. [⚡ Important Rules](#-important-rules)
13. [🎉 After the Hackathon](#-after-the-hackathon)
14. [👥 Team](#-team)

---

## 🌀 Philosophy

*Build for Impact, Not Just Bounties*

### **Tech-Agnostic Building**: Empowering open innovation

While most hackathons prioritize short-term wins, we’re here to foster real-world, self-sustaining privacy solutions. Projects are judged not just on technical merit, but also on business logic, real-world use cases, and long-term impact—ensuring your work lives on well beyond the event.

Our tracks are tech-, chain-, and protocol-agnostic. No forced stacks. No vendor agendas. You’re free to choose the best tools for your vision, without being boxed in by bounty-driven constraints.


### Collaboration over competition
Collaborate with designers, engineers, marketers, and researchers, while gaining direct access to independent industry mentors. 
Work on meaningful open-source tools and create lasting, impactful change.

---

## 📅 Key Timeline

| **Event**               | **Date & Time**             |
|------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| Registration Opens      | Friday, June 13 - 16:00     |
| Hackathon Starts        | Friday, June 13 - 21:00     |
| **Submission Deadline** | **Sunday, June 15 - 16:30** |
| Venue Closes            | Sunday, June 15 - 21:00     |

*All times are local (Europe/Berlin), i.e. CEST (Central European Summer Time)

---

## 📋 Schedule

### Friday, June 13
|  Time         |                                                       |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 16:00         | Opening doors & registration                          |
| 18:00         | Getting to know each other and play                   |
| 19:30         | Opening Ceremony                                      |
| 20:00         | Team Formation                                        |
| 20:00 - 21:00 | Dinner                                                |
| 21:00         | **Hacking begins**                                    |
| 00:30         | Midnight snack                                        |

### Saturday, June 14
|     Time      |                                                       |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 09:00 - 10:30 | Breakfast                                             |
| 11:00 - 18:30 | Workshops                                             |
| 12:30 - 13:45 | Lunch                                                 |
| 16:30         | Snack                                                 |
| 19:00 - 20:30 | Dinner/BBQ                                            |
| 00:30         | Midnight Snack                                        |

### Sunday, June 15
|    Time     |                                                        |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 08:30-10:00 | Breakfast                                              |
| 11:00-16:30 | Project Finalisation Workshops                         |
| 12:30-13:45 | Lunch                                                  |
| 16:30       | **Submission Deadline**                                |
| 16:30       | Snack & Aperitivo                                      |
| 18:30/19:00 | Closing Ceremony - Announce winners                    |
| 19:30       | Closing drinks                                         |
| 21:00       | Venue Closes                                           |

---

## 🛠️ Hackathon Tracks

1. Advanced Cryptography
2. Censorship Resistance
3. Applied Encryption
4. Privacy-First AI
5. Public Goods
6. Design (UI/UX)
7. User Onboarding 


### 1. Advanced Cryptography
Cryptography is the backbone of digital security and privacy, powering everything we do. As an academic field it is constantly evolving and advances in this field can be difficult to understand or implement.

The only way to protect individual freedom is to rely on bleeding-edge technology - but not everyone can use it. Your goal is to move it from the edge to the center! 

This track evolves around utilising advanced cryptographic tools within new use cases:
  - MPC (Multi-Party Computation)
  - TEE (Trusted Execution Environments)
  - ZK (Zero Knowledge proofs)
  - DID (Decentralised Identity protocols)
  - FHE (Fully homomorphic encryption)

### 2. Applied Encryption
How can we practically strengthen the cryptography behind the tools and services people rely on today? 

Enhance existing projects, revive abandoned ones, and apply new logic to proven encryption models.

**Imagine:** Everything is encrypted - amazing - we are all secure and our content is private...but is it? One outdated depedency. One cracked or vulnerable alrgorithm or protocol and it was all for nothing. Make sure we are protected by keeping the tech up to date! 

Examples:
  - Encrypt hidden messages within music (carnation.fm)
  - Investigating and flagging privacy technologies using outdated cryptographic libraries
  - Rejuvenating sunset projects with outdated cryptography
  - Improving encryption standards for Post-Quantum Resistance
  - Create a privacy/encryption-focused CRM system
  - Add Threshold or Multi-signature schemes in single-sig wallets
  - Adding double-ratchet or modern encryption protocols to applications
  - plausible deniability: designated-verifier proofs in verifiable credentials

### 3. Censorship Resistance
Build or empower protocols and networks that protect users and content against digital censorship.

Example Technology Stacks:
  - Tor Browser
  - i2p
  - mixnets (0KN, HOPR, Katzenpost, Nym, xx.network)
  - Nostr
  - Fileverse
  - DarkFi
  - Aztec
  - BitTorrent
  - Mesh networks (Reticulum / Meshtastic)
  - Bluetooth mesh networks
  - Adding privacy to current p2p protocols

### 4. Privacy-first AI
As AI becomes increasingly integrated into our daily lives, it is important that we can interact with it in the best possible way. User's right to privacy should be respected from all perspectives and by default.

**Imagine:** You feel good - you use privacy tech, you cannot be censored, but something is weird. Why do I still feel like *they* know so much about me? Oh wait, I asked this AI bot for recommendations yesterday. Was it leaked? Did they sell my dreams? 

Focus Areas:
 - Protect personal files while giving AI access to your codebase
 - Utilise AI systems on sensitive information securely
 - Censorship-resistant LLMs / AI models
 - Build applications that utilise anonymous datasets
 - Disrupt AI facial recognition systems

### 5. Public Goods
How can we protect individual privacy while enabling real-world impact and public infrastructure? This track invites builders to create privacy-preserving solutions that enhance compliance, aid, and coordination—especially where traditional systems fail.

Focus Areas:
- Privacy-first aid & payments → Tools for funding, verified recipients, merchants, and nonprofits—without exposing personal data or requiring government IDs.
- Identity for the underserved → Privacy-preserving identity and civic tools for off-grid, stateless, or emerging communities.
- Privacy-preserving tools for public goods funding and governance → Privacy-focused platforms for grants, voting, and coordination—supporting collective action while protecting individual rights.

### 6. Design (UI/UX)
We frequently hear that privacy enhancing apps and platforms have "bad UI/UX" and that they are not welcoming to new users in a friendly way. 

This track seeks to encourage designers, marketers, and developers to improve application general look-n-feel.

**Imagine:** CLose your eyes. Focus. Don't let your mind run. Relax. Think about that one app you want to have. That one app that everyone will want to use because it solve a problem - big or small, does not matter - it solves one problem. How does the app look? How does it make you feel? What is the first thing user does? Open your eyes - go make it!

Prototype quickly by re-using Figma files of real products:
- https://www.deepwork.network/case-studies (Explore similar projects and copy-paste design elements)

Ready to copy and paste designs for your app:
- http://lottecss.com (no need to apply classes, use with your semantic html/jsx markup, minimal (familiar) utility classes so you don't need tailwind)

Other Resources:
 - [zkbob.com](https://zkbob.com)
 - [bitcoin.design/guide](https://bitcoin.design/guide)
 - [ethereum.org/developers/docs/design-and-ux](https://ethereum.org/developers/docs/design-and-ux)
 - [dexola.com/blog/designing-user-centric-dapps-5-best-practices-for-web3-ux](https://dexola.com/blog/designing-user-centric-dapps-5-best-practices-for-web3-ux)

### 7. User Onboarding
Privacy-focused applications often suffer from proper onboarding process for new users. This track seeks to enhance the new user experience.

**Imagine:** Oh, yeah, I am going deep into privacy. I'll fix all my data leaks. But..but how? Where do I even start? How do I know? Why is it so complicated? Why is everyone talking about privacy, but nobody about how to achieve it and where to start? What is the first thing I need my friends to do to improve their privacy?

Focus areas:
- Improving in-app onboarding process
- Improving app and website accessibility (WC3 standards)
- Curation of "2025 cryptographic best practices" for web3 wallet devs
- Review of the current e2e landscape in chat and social media
- Creating video guides for protocols

---

## ✨ Advice, Tips and Inspiration
Explore our [Privacy Builder Pack](https://build.web3privacy.info/) to find: 
* A curated collection of tools and resources
* Insights from seasoned hackers
* An Idea Generator to spark your creativity

---

## 👨‍🏫 Mentors & Mentoring

To help you build meaningful, user-centered solutions with real impact, we’ve brought in trusted, independent mentors—each with deep, hands-on expertise across diverse fields. 

At W3PN HACKS we embrace a holistic approach, offering support from technical execution and idea validation to socio-cultural insight. 

Let’s build tools that truly matter—now.

### List of mentors

| Name | Org | Focus |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Alan](https://x.com/tsu_kareta) | Railgun ||
| Alex | Session ||
| [Anton](https://x.com/antonpaisov) | Calimero | DevRel |
| [Antonio](https://x.com/0xmetony) | Fluidkey | coder & solidity dev |
| [Auryn](https://x.com/auryn_macmillan) | GnosisGuild ||
| [Bertran](https://x.com/bjuglas) | Celo ||
| [Bianca](https://x.com/buzea200) | Chronicle | DevRel |
| [Cat](https://x.com/CatMcGeeCode) | Aztec | devreel |
| [Christopher](https://x.com/cwgoes) | Anoma ||
| [David](https://x.com/david1casey) | Funding The Commons ||
| [Eleftherios](https://x.com/lftherios/) | Radicle || 
| [Giacomo](https://x.com/0xjei) | EnclaveE3 | applied cryptography, ZK |
| [Jacob](https://x.com/_czepluch) | Phylax Systems | devrel engineer |
| [jimjim.eth](https://x.com/jimjim_eth) | - ||
| [Kieran](https://x.com/mesquka) | Railgun ||
| [Leftheris](https://x.com/LefterisJP) | Rotki ||
| [Marina](https://x.com/MarinaMarkezic) | European Crypto Initiative | legal |
| Max | NYM ||
| [Milos](https://x.com/MorphNetrunner) | Ethereum Foundation | software engineer |
| [Miroyato](https://x.com/miroyato) | Fileverse ||
| [Oskarth](https://x.com/oskarth) | vacp2p ||
| [Owen](https://x.com/temporalwave) | Poly | fullstack, AI |
| Pentacle | - | UX/UI |
| [Reno](https://x.com/0xrenoyang) | Ethereum Community Fund ||
| [Sebastian](https://x.com/SCBuergel) | Hopr, GnosisDAO ||
| [TranquilFlow](https://x.com/FlowTranquil) | Byzantine ||
| [Vitalik](https://x.com/VitalikButerin) | Ethereum Foundation ||
| [Ying Tong](https://x.com/therealyingtong) | - | applied cryptography |
| [Zimt](https://x.com/syntonyy) | Blockchain Gov ||


---

## 📝 How to Submit Your Project

**Platform:** GitHub (any usual platforms with **W3PN Hackathon** are not organized by us)

**Process:**
1. W3PN creates a submission repository at hackathon start
2. Copy the provided template (to upload link here)
3. Create your project folder
4. Submit via Pull Request:
   - README.md (using template)
   - Code/repository links
   - Presentations (.odp/.odg/.otp format preferred)
5. **Deadline:** Sunday, June 15 at 16:30 CEST

*No GitHub account? W3PN team can help upload your submission.*

---

## ⚖️ Judging Criteria

**Total: 100 points (20 points each criteria)**

> "Our judges will prioritise technical solutions and reward hackers not just about a working Proof of Concept application or good business logic in their pitch. Judges will assess the impact of what the team or person has done during the course of the hackathon."

### 1. Technology (20 points)
 - Was the technology stack used in the submission modern or exciting?
 - Was the submission aligned with modern web/coding practices?
 - Could you see developers within the ecosystems of the technologies used being excited by the submission?
 - Would you run this code?
 - Would you integrate this code into one of your projects?
 - Would you be interested in forking and improving this code (intention)
 - Does it compile? Have you managed to test-run it?
 - Are there real technological or physical constraints of the submission ("it would boil all the world's oceans")

### 2. Real-Use Cases (20 points)
 - Could you see yourself running this code if fully developed after the hackathon?
 - Could you see normies using the submission?
 - Could you see this positively impacting the lives of everyday users?
 - Could you see this positively impacting the lives of people/communities at risk?
 - Does this have a real world use case or is it only an intersting idea?

### 3. Privacy Improvement (20 points)
 - Does it improve privacy somehow?
 - Does it massively improve privacy?
 - Can you see ways it could further improve the privacy?
 - Does the submission consider web2 and web1 privacy leaking in the submission? 
 - Would you use this submission if your life depended on it working privately?

### 4. Business-logic (20 points)
 - Would a VC back this?
 - Is this already in the market?
 - Could you see privacy respecting revenue creation from this submission?
 - Did the person consider or present ideas about financial sustainability?
 - Would you think this submission could make it to the market and be used by users in an AppStore ecosystem?
 
### 5. Vibe (20 points)
This track is a wildcard 20 points judges can attribute as they see fit, not a judgement on the drip or flex of the person submitting, and definately not a vibe-check. Keeping it fun and giving the judge a 'open vote' where they can give anywhere from 0 or 20 points.

---

## 🏠 Venue & Logistics

* **Venue Name**: [Engelnest Coworking](https://engelnest.de/)
* **Address**: Wilhelm-Kabus-Straße 24, 10829 Berlin ([OpenStreetMap](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/ui/search.html?q=Wilhelm-Kabus-Stra%C3%9Fe+24%2C+10829+Berlin%2C+N%C4%9Bmecko), [GMaps](https://maps.app.goo.gl/iuxPxpCeqkGK7Hi59))

### Amenities
 - 24/7 venue access during hackathon
 - 100-150 Mbps internet connection
 - Shower facilities
 - Specialty coffee (espresso & cold brew)
 - All meals provided (vegan-friendly)
 - BBQ by W3PN Team (Vegan friendly)
 - Privacy Corner

### Venue Access / Transport

The location is easily accessible by Berlin's public transport ([BVG](https://www.bvg.de/)), the following stations are located nearby:
- **Südkreuz station** (~10 min walk) - S-Bahn, Bus, Intercity train/bus (recommended)
- Kesselsdorfstr. (~5 min walk) - MetroBus M43
- Julius-Leber-Brücke (~13 min walk) - S-Bahn S1
- Leuthener Str. (~8 min walk) - Bus 106, 204

<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c47e3ccb-aa68-4997-98ff-719aeab0276e" width="50%" />

### Accommodation

We recommend you to look for a suitable shelter as soon as you receive your hacker confirmation! If you haven't booked anything yet, best do so asap.

Aside from hotels and Airbnbs, you can check offers on local options like [WG-Gesucht](https://www.wg-gesucht.de/en/) and Facebook groups or post your own requests post there. However, please be wary of the risks and potential scams.

Our venue is open non-stop and welcomes hacking through the night. However, we still would recommend to look for a place to leave your stuff, sleep, and take a shower (although a shower will be available in the venue).

---

## ⚡ Important Rules

### House Rules
- **Be Excellent To Each Other**
- Zero tolerance for racism, sexism, xenophobia, or hate
- Organizers can remove participants for inappropriate behavior
- **Must vacate by 21:00 Sunday**

### Hacking Rules
- Tech/chain/protocol agnostic - use any tools
- Focus on impact and sustainability
- Open source encouraged
- Collaboration over competition

---

## 🎉 After the Hackathon

 - Do not leave personal items behind even if you are coming back
 - Rave will begin at (TBA: Time, entry, +1s, FAQ)

YOU
 - Join the W3PN Dev Channel (invite-only)
 - share the experience on social media

US
 - W3PN to promote the projects and share work done
 - Medium article about projects submitted and judging
 - Invite-only call with hackers & mentors

---

## 👥 Team

Our team has organized, judged, talks, and collaboratively won over 25 hackathons. From this perspective we decided to create a hackathon adjusted to the great and not so great experiences we had.

| Contributor | Areas |
| --- | --- |
| [mf](https://x.com/0x_m_f) | lead, production |
| [PG](https://x.com/PG_CDG) | lead, production |
| [Mykola](https://x.com/nicksvyaznoy) | socials, networking |
| [Coinmandeer](https://x.com/KeenOfCoin) | design |
| cat | web, support |
| [Alina](https://x.com/alinalatinina) | "Safe Space" event |
| [jensei](https://x.com/jensei_) | Hackathon Builder Pack |
| [Andrea](https://x.com/iandreeacia) | production |

Commit message:

Basic info about Prizes & Awards

hacker-manual.md, after:

# Hacker Manual - W3PN_Hacks @ Berlin 2025


/ [Read](https://hackathon.web3privacy.info/info) Hackathon Manifesto

/ Be Excellent To Each Other and Have Fun


## 🎯 Core details
* **What:** Privacy-focused hackathon building real-world solutions  
* **When:** June 13-15, 2025  
* **Where:** Engelnest - Wilhelm-Kabus-Straße 24, 10829 Berlin, Germany ([OpenStreetMap](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/ui/search.html?q=Wilhelm-Kabus-Stra%C3%9Fe+24%2C+10829+Berlin%2C+N%C4%9Bmecko), [GMaps](https://maps.app.goo.gl/iuxPxpCeqkGK7Hi59))
* **Philosophy:** Tech-agnostic *building for impact, not just bounties*


## Table of Contents

1. [🌀 Philosophy](#-philosophy)
2. [📅 Key Timeline](#-key-timeline)
3. [📋 Schedule](#-schedule)
   - [Friday, June 13](#friday-june-13)
   - [Saturday, June 14](#saturday-june-14)
   - [Sunday, June 15](#sunday-june-15)
5. [🛠️ Hackathon Tracks](#%EF%B8%8F-hackathon-tracks)
6. [✨ Advice, Tips and Inspiration](#-advice-tips-and-inspiration)
7. [👨‍🏫 Mentors & Mentoring](#-mentors--mentoring)
8. [📝 How to Submit Your Project](#-how-to-submit-your-project)
9. [⚖️ Judging Criteria](#%EF%B8%8F-judging-criteria)
10. [🏆 Prizes & Awards](#-prizes--awards)
11. [🏠 Venue & Logistics](#-venue--logistics)
    - [Venue Access / Transport](#venue-access--transport)
    - [Accommodation](#accommodation)
12. [⚡ Important Rules](#-important-rules)
13. [🎉 After the Hackathon](#-after-the-hackathon)
14. [👥 Team](#-team)

---

## 🌀 Philosophy

*Build for Impact, Not Just Bounties*

### **Tech-Agnostic Building**: Empowering open innovation

While most hackathons prioritize short-term wins, we’re here to foster real-world, self-sustaining privacy solutions. Projects are judged not just on technical merit, but also on business logic, real-world use cases, and long-term impact—ensuring your work lives on well beyond the event.

Our tracks are tech-, chain-, and protocol-agnostic. No forced stacks. No vendor agendas. You’re free to choose the best tools for your vision, without being boxed in by bounty-driven constraints.


### Collaboration over competition
Collaborate with designers, engineers, marketers, and researchers, while gaining direct access to independent industry mentors. 
Work on meaningful open-source tools and create lasting, impactful change.

---

## 📅 Key Timeline

| **Event**               | **Date & Time**             |
|------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| Registration Opens      | Friday, June 13 - 16:00     |
| Hackathon Starts        | Friday, June 13 - 21:00     |
| **Submission Deadline** | **Sunday, June 15 - 16:30** |
| Venue Closes            | Sunday, June 15 - 21:00     |

*All times are local (Europe/Berlin), i.e. CEST (Central European Summer Time)

---

## 📋 Schedule

### Friday, June 13
|  Time         |                                                       |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 16:00         | Opening doors & registration                          |
| 18:00         | Getting to know each other and play                   |
| 19:30         | Opening Ceremony                                      |
| 20:00         | Team Formation                                        |
| 20:00 - 21:00 | Dinner                                                |
| 21:00         | **Hacking begins**                                    |
| 00:30         | Midnight snack                                        |

### Saturday, June 14
|     Time      |                                                       |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 09:00 - 10:30 | Breakfast                                             |
| 11:00 - 18:30 | Workshops                                             |
| 12:30 - 13:45 | Lunch                                                 |
| 16:30         | Snack                                                 |
| 19:00 - 20:30 | Dinner/BBQ                                            |
| 00:30         | Midnight Snack                                        |

### Sunday, June 15
|    Time     |                                                        |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 08:30-10:00 | Breakfast                                              |
| 11:00-16:30 | Project Finalisation Workshops                         |
| 12:30-13:45 | Lunch                                                  |
| 16:30       | **Submission Deadline**                                |
| 16:30       | Snack & Aperitivo                                      |
| 18:30/19:00 | Closing Ceremony - Announce winners                    |
| 19:30       | Closing drinks                                         |
| 21:00       | Venue Closes                                           |

---

## 🛠️ Hackathon Tracks

1. Advanced Cryptography
2. Censorship Resistance
3. Applied Encryption
4. Privacy-First AI
5. Public Goods
6. Design (UI/UX)
7. User Onboarding 


### 1. Advanced Cryptography
Cryptography is the backbone of digital security and privacy, powering everything we do. As an academic field it is constantly evolving and advances in this field can be difficult to understand or implement.

The only way to protect individual freedom is to rely on bleeding-edge technology - but not everyone can use it. Your goal is to move it from the edge to the center! 

This track evolves around utilising advanced cryptographic tools within new use cases:
  - MPC (Multi-Party Computation)
  - TEE (Trusted Execution Environments)
  - ZK (Zero Knowledge proofs)
  - DID (Decentralised Identity protocols)
  - FHE (Fully homomorphic encryption)

### 2. Applied Encryption
How can we practically strengthen the cryptography behind the tools and services people rely on today? 

Enhance existing projects, revive abandoned ones, and apply new logic to proven encryption models.

**Imagine:** Everything is encrypted - amazing - we are all secure and our content is private...but is it? One outdated depedency. One cracked or vulnerable alrgorithm or protocol and it was all for nothing. Make sure we are protected by keeping the tech up to date! 

Examples:
  - Encrypt hidden messages within music (carnation.fm)
  - Investigating and flagging privacy technologies using outdated cryptographic libraries
  - Rejuvenating sunset projects with outdated cryptography
  - Improving encryption standards for Post-Quantum Resistance
  - Create a privacy/encryption-focused CRM system
  - Add Threshold or Multi-signature schemes in single-sig wallets
  - Adding double-ratchet or modern encryption protocols to applications
  - plausible deniability: designated-verifier proofs in verifiable credentials

### 3. Censorship Resistance
Build or empower protocols and networks that protect users and content against digital censorship.

Example Technology Stacks:
  - Tor Browser
  - i2p
  - mixnets (0KN, HOPR, Katzenpost, Nym, xx.network)
  - Nostr
  - Fileverse
  - DarkFi
  - Aztec
  - BitTorrent
  - Mesh networks (Reticulum / Meshtastic)
  - Bluetooth mesh networks
  - Adding privacy to current p2p protocols

### 4. Privacy-first AI
As AI becomes increasingly integrated into our daily lives, it is important that we can interact with it in the best possible way. User's right to privacy should be respected from all perspectives and by default.

**Imagine:** You feel good - you use privacy tech, you cannot be censored, but something is weird. Why do I still feel like *they* know so much about me? Oh wait, I asked this AI bot for recommendations yesterday. Was it leaked? Did they sell my dreams? 

Focus Areas:
 - Protect personal files while giving AI access to your codebase
 - Utilise AI systems on sensitive information securely
 - Censorship-resistant LLMs / AI models
 - Build applications that utilise anonymous datasets
 - Disrupt AI facial recognition systems

### 5. Public Goods
How can we protect individual privacy while enabling real-world impact and public infrastructure? This track invites builders to create privacy-preserving solutions that enhance compliance, aid, and coordination—especially where traditional systems fail.

Focus Areas:
- Privacy-first aid & payments → Tools for funding, verified recipients, merchants, and nonprofits—without exposing personal data or requiring government IDs.
- Identity for the underserved → Privacy-preserving identity and civic tools for off-grid, stateless, or emerging communities.
- Privacy-preserving tools for public goods funding and governance → Privacy-focused platforms for grants, voting, and coordination—supporting collective action while protecting individual rights.

### 6. Design (UI/UX)
We frequently hear that privacy enhancing apps and platforms have "bad UI/UX" and that they are not welcoming to new users in a friendly way. 

This track seeks to encourage designers, marketers, and developers to improve application general look-n-feel.

**Imagine:** CLose your eyes. Focus. Don't let your mind run. Relax. Think about that one app you want to have. That one app that everyone will want to use because it solve a problem - big or small, does not matter - it solves one problem. How does the app look? How does it make you feel? What is the first thing user does? Open your eyes - go make it!

Prototype quickly by re-using Figma files of real products:
- https://www.deepwork.network/case-studies (Explore similar projects and copy-paste design elements)

Ready to copy and paste designs for your app:
- http://lottecss.com (no need to apply classes, use with your semantic html/jsx markup, minimal (familiar) utility classes so you don't need tailwind)

Other Resources:
 - [zkbob.com](https://zkbob.com)
 - [bitcoin.design/guide](https://bitcoin.design/guide)
 - [ethereum.org/developers/docs/design-and-ux](https://ethereum.org/developers/docs/design-and-ux)
 - [dexola.com/blog/designing-user-centric-dapps-5-best-practices-for-web3-ux](https://dexola.com/blog/designing-user-centric-dapps-5-best-practices-for-web3-ux)

### 7. User Onboarding
Privacy-focused applications often suffer from proper onboarding process for new users. This track seeks to enhance the new user experience.

**Imagine:** Oh, yeah, I am going deep into privacy. I'll fix all my data leaks. But..but how? Where do I even start? How do I know? Why is it so complicated? Why is everyone talking about privacy, but nobody about how to achieve it and where to start? What is the first thing I need my friends to do to improve their privacy?

Focus areas:
- Improving in-app onboarding process
- Improving app and website accessibility (WC3 standards)
- Curation of "2025 cryptographic best practices" for web3 wallet devs
- Review of the current e2e landscape in chat and social media
- Creating video guides for protocols

---

## ✨ Advice, Tips and Inspiration
Explore our [Privacy Builder Pack](https://build.web3privacy.info/) to find: 
* A curated collection of tools and resources
* Insights from seasoned hackers
* An Idea Generator to spark your creativity

---

## 👨‍🏫 Mentors & Mentoring

To help you build meaningful, user-centered solutions with real impact, we’ve brought in trusted, independent mentors—each with deep, hands-on expertise across diverse fields. 

At W3PN HACKS we embrace a holistic approach, offering support from technical execution and idea validation to socio-cultural insight. 

Let’s build tools that truly matter—now.

### List of mentors

| Name | Org | Focus |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Alan](https://x.com/tsu_kareta) | Railgun ||
| Alex | Session ||
| [Anton](https://x.com/antonpaisov) | Calimero | DevRel |
| [Antonio](https://x.com/0xmetony) | Fluidkey | coder & solidity dev |
| [Auryn](https://x.com/auryn_macmillan) | GnosisGuild ||
| [Bertran](https://x.com/bjuglas) | Celo ||
| [Bianca](https://x.com/buzea200) | Chronicle | DevRel |
| [Cat](https://x.com/CatMcGeeCode) | Aztec | devreel |
| [Christopher](https://x.com/cwgoes) | Anoma ||
| [David](https://x.com/david1casey) | Funding The Commons ||
| [Eleftherios](https://x.com/lftherios/) | Radicle || 
| [Giacomo](https://x.com/0xjei) | EnclaveE3 | applied cryptography, ZK |
| [Jacob](https://x.com/_czepluch) | Phylax Systems | devrel engineer |
| [jimjim.eth](https://x.com/jimjim_eth) | - ||
| [Kieran](https://x.com/mesquka) | Railgun ||
| [Leftheris](https://x.com/LefterisJP) | Rotki ||
| [Marina](https://x.com/MarinaMarkezic) | European Crypto Initiative | legal |
| Max | NYM ||
| [Milos](https://x.com/MorphNetrunner) | Ethereum Foundation | software engineer |
| [Miroyato](https://x.com/miroyato) | Fileverse ||
| [Oskarth](https://x.com/oskarth) | vacp2p ||
| [Owen](https://x.com/temporalwave) | Poly | fullstack, AI |
| Pentacle | - | UX/UI |
| [Reno](https://x.com/0xrenoyang) | Ethereum Community Fund ||
| [Sebastian](https://x.com/SCBuergel) | Hopr, GnosisDAO ||
| [TranquilFlow](https://x.com/FlowTranquil) | Byzantine ||
| [Vitalik](https://x.com/VitalikButerin) | Ethereum Foundation ||
| [Ying Tong](https://x.com/therealyingtong) | - | applied cryptography |
| [Zimt](https://x.com/syntonyy) | Blockchain Gov ||


---

## 📝 How to Submit Your Project

**Platform:** GitHub (any usual platforms with **W3PN Hackathon** are not organized by us)

**Process:**
1. W3PN creates a submission repository at hackathon start
2. Copy the provided template (to upload link here)
3. Create your project folder
4. Submit via Pull Request:
   - README.md (using template)
   - Code/repository links
   - Presentations (.odp/.odg/.otp format preferred)
5. **Deadline:** Sunday, June 15 at 16:30 CEST

*No GitHub account? W3PN team can help upload your submission.*

---

## ⚖️ Judging Criteria

**Total: 100 points (20 points each criteria)**

> "Our judges will prioritise technical solutions and reward hackers not just about a working Proof of Concept application or good business logic in their pitch. Judges will assess the impact of what the team or person has done during the course of the hackathon."

### 1. Technology (20 points)
 - Was the technology stack used in the submission modern or exciting?
 - Was the submission aligned with modern web/coding practices?
 - Could you see developers within the ecosystems of the technologies used being excited by the submission?
 - Would you run this code?
 - Would you integrate this code into one of your projects?
 - Would you be interested in forking and improving this code (intention)
 - Does it compile? Have you managed to test-run it?
 - Are there real technological or physical constraints of the submission ("it would boil all the world's oceans")

### 2. Real-Use Cases (20 points)
 - Could you see yourself running this code if fully developed after the hackathon?
 - Could you see normies using the submission?
 - Could you see this positively impacting the lives of everyday users?
 - Could you see this positively impacting the lives of people/communities at risk?
 - Does this have a real world use case or is it only an intersting idea?

### 3. Privacy Improvement (20 points)
 - Does it improve privacy somehow?
 - Does it massively improve privacy?
 - Can you see ways it could further improve the privacy?
 - Does the submission consider web2 and web1 privacy leaking in the submission? 
 - Would you use this submission if your life depended on it working privately?

### 4. Business-logic (20 points)
 - Would a VC back this?
 - Is this already in the market?
 - Could you see privacy respecting revenue creation from this submission?
 - Did the person consider or present ideas about financial sustainability?
 - Would you think this submission could make it to the market and be used by users in an AppStore ecosystem?
 
### 5. Vibe (20 points)
This track is a wildcard 20 points judges can attribute as they see fit, not a judgement on the drip or flex of the person submitting, and definately not a vibe-check. Keeping it fun and giving the judge a 'open vote' where they can give anywhere from 0 or 20 points.

---

## 🏆 Prizes & Awards

- €30,000 Prize Pool
- 7 winners—one for each track—will be selected by our independent jury.
- No sponsor bounties. We focus on real-world impact with a 100% protocol-agnostic approach.

---

## 🏠 Venue & Logistics

* **Venue Name**: [Engelnest Coworking](https://engelnest.de/)
* **Address**: Wilhelm-Kabus-Straße 24, 10829 Berlin ([OpenStreetMap](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/ui/search.html?q=Wilhelm-Kabus-Stra%C3%9Fe+24%2C+10829+Berlin%2C+N%C4%9Bmecko), [GMaps](https://maps.app.goo.gl/iuxPxpCeqkGK7Hi59))

### Amenities
 - 24/7 venue access during hackathon
 - 100-150 Mbps internet connection
 - Shower facilities
 - Specialty coffee (espresso & cold brew)
 - All meals provided (vegan-friendly)
 - BBQ by W3PN Team (Vegan friendly)
 - Privacy Corner

### Venue Access / Transport

The location is easily accessible by Berlin's public transport ([BVG](https://www.bvg.de/)), the following stations are located nearby:
- **Südkreuz station** (~10 min walk) - S-Bahn, Bus, Intercity train/bus (recommended)
- Kesselsdorfstr. (~5 min walk) - MetroBus M43
- Julius-Leber-Brücke (~13 min walk) - S-Bahn S1
- Leuthener Str. (~8 min walk) - Bus 106, 204

<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c47e3ccb-aa68-4997-98ff-719aeab0276e" width="50%" />

### Accommodation

We recommend you to look for a suitable shelter as soon as you receive your hacker confirmation! If you haven't booked anything yet, best do so asap.

Aside from hotels and Airbnbs, you can check offers on local options like [WG-Gesucht](https://www.wg-gesucht.de/en/) and Facebook groups or post your own requests post there. However, please be wary of the risks and potential scams.

Our venue is open non-stop and welcomes hacking through the night. However, we still would recommend to look for a place to leave your stuff, sleep, and take a shower (although a shower will be available in the venue).

---

## ⚡ Important Rules

### House Rules
- **Be Excellent To Each Other**
- Zero tolerance for racism, sexism, xenophobia, or hate
- Organizers can remove participants for inappropriate behavior
- **Must vacate by 21:00 Sunday**

### Hacking Rules
- Tech/chain/protocol agnostic - use any tools
- Focus on impact and sustainability
- Open source encouraged
- Collaboration over competition

---

## 🎉 After the Hackathon

 - Do not leave personal items behind even if you are coming back
 - Rave will begin at (TBA: Time, entry, +1s, FAQ)

YOU
 - Join the W3PN Dev Channel (invite-only)
 - share the experience on social media

US
 - W3PN to promote the projects and share work done
 - Medium article about projects submitted and judging
 - Invite-only call with hackers & mentors

---

## 👥 Team

Our team has organized, judged, talks, and collaboratively won over 25 hackathons. From this perspective we decided to create a hackathon adjusted to the great and not so great experiences we had.

| Contributor | Areas |
| --- | --- |
| [mf](https://x.com/0x_m_f) | lead, production |
| [PG](https://x.com/PG_CDG) | lead, production |
| [Mykola](https://x.com/nicksvyaznoy) | socials, networking |
| [Coinmandeer](https://x.com/KeenOfCoin) | design |
| cat | web, support |
| [Alina](https://x.com/alinalatinina) | "Safe Space" event |
| [jensei](https://x.com/jensei_) | Hackathon Builder Pack |
| [Andrea](https://x.com/iandreeacia) | production |
